# Alcohol consumption in pregnancy

## Alcohol consumption before and during pregnancy
### Code in Stata
The code below was written for the purpose of harmonizing data from MoBa with data from the Danish National Birth Cohort (DNBC) for the MOBAND CP study. The harmonization was regarded as partial as information was lost from MoBa when harmonizing, and due to the substantial amount of missing for the generated variables in MoBa. The questionnaires in MoBa includes information about how often the respondents consume alcohol and how many units of alcohol they usually consume each time. This information was recoded to construct a mesaure of total alcohol consumption per week as this harmonized better with the questions in the DNBC. Therefore, not all information was kept from MoBa when harmonizing the data. Some women might have reported either how often they drink alcohol during pregnancy or how much they drink each time. These women were coded missing as we did not have information on both and therefore could not construct a measure of consumption per week.
The suggested code for variables for alcohol consumption during pregnancy (alcohol_1, alcohol_2 and alcohol_3) gives weekly consumption of alcohol at time of filling out the questionnaire. Below is suggested code for binge-drinking. The code for binge-drinking generate variables that give number of episodes of binge-drinking so far in pregnancy. A number of women have had one or more binge-drinking episodes during pregnancy, but report that they do not drink alcohol at present when they respond to the interview/questionnaire. These women will be coded 0 for alcohol consumption, but "1-2 episodes" or "More than 2 episodes" for binge-drinking. Because of this, one may consider to combine the variables for alcohol consumption and binge-drinking if one wants to include alcohol consumption during pregnancy as a variable(s) in the analyses.

### Description of code
All respondents who have reported that they "Never" drink alcohol (during pregnancy) in AA1454 or AA2020 are coded "No" for alcohol_1 (alcohol consumption per week at time of questionnaire 1) even though a few of them have reported number of units usually consumed during pregnancy in AA1465 or AA2024. Of these, more then 99 percent have answered "Less than 1". We interpret this inconsistency as no alcohol consumption. This as "Less than 1" is the lowest category for this question and "0" is not an answer category. We trust the respondents' first answer in AA1454/AA2020 ("Never") the most. <br>
There is a substantial amount of missing on the generated variable (alcohol_1). This is mainly due to the following:
1. Some women have reported how often they drink in AA1454/AA2020 or how much they drink at each occasion in AA1465/AA2024. But as they have not reported both it is not possible to estimate consumption per week and therefore they are coded missing for alcohol_1.
2. As there is no direct questions asking the respondents whether they drink in pregnancy, and the question regarding alcohol consumption asks both about consumption before and in pregnancy, many women have only checked the boxes for alcohol consumption before prenancy. We believe that most of these women do not drink in pregnancy, and that this is the reason they have not answered. However, since they have not answered "Never" in AA1454/AA2020 we can not know for sure whether they do not drink in pregnancy. This problem is also present for alcohol_2 (alcohol consumption per week at time of questionnaire 3) and alcohol_3 (alcohol consumption per week in last part of pregnancy).
##### MoBa is not responsible for any errors in the study results that are caused by errors in code or documentation at the MoBa Wiki page.
